Abrogating:
Federal Law no. 2 of 2015.
Federal Decree-Law no. (32) of 2021
Issued on 20/09/2021 Corresponding to 13/Safar/1443H. ON COMMERCIAL COMPANIES
 We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates,
- Pursuant to the perusal of the Constitution;
- Federal Law no. (1) of 1972 on Competencies of the Ministries and Powers of the Ministers, and its amendments;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (5) of 1975 on the Commercial Register;
- Law no. (5) of 1985 promulgating the Civil Transactions Law of the United Arab Emirates, and its amendments;
- Law no. (3) of 1987 promulgating the Penal Code, and its amendments;
- Federal Law mo. (10) of 1992 promulgating the Law of Evidence in Civil and Commercial Transactions, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (11) of 1992 promulgating the Civil Procedure Law, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (35) of 1992 promulgating the Criminal Procedure Law, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (18) of 1993 promulgating the Commercial Transactions Law, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (29) of 1999 establishing the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (4) of 2000 on the UAE Securities and Commodities Authority and Market, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (7) of 2002 on Copyrights and Neighbouring Rights, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (8) of 2004 on the Financial Free Zones;
- Federal Law no. (17) of 2004 on Anti-Commercial Concealment;
- Federal Law no. (1) of 2006 on Electronic Commerce and Transactions, and its amendments;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (4) of 2007 on the Establishment of the Emirates Investment Authority, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (6) of 2007 on the Establishment of the Insurance Authority and Regulation of its Operations;
- Federal Law no. (4) of 2012 on the Regulation of Competition;
- Federal Law no. (4) of 2013 on the Regulation of the Notarial Profession, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (12) of 2014 on the Regulation of the Auditing Profession, and its amendments; - Federal Law no. (2) of 2015 on Commercial Companies, and its amendments;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (9) of 2016 on Bankruptcy, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (14) of 2016 on Violations and Administrative Penalties in the Federal Government;
- Federal Law no. (17) of 2016 on the Establishment of Mediation and Conciliation Centres for Civil and Commercial Disputes, and its amendments;
- Federal Law no. (19) of 2016 on Anti-Commercial Fraud;
- Federal Law no. (7) of 2017 on Tax Procedures;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (8) of 2017 on the Value Added Tax (VAT);
- Federal Law no. (6) of 2018 on Arbitration;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (14) of 2018, on the Central Bank, the Regulation of the Financial
   
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 Activities and Institutions, and its amendments;
- Federal Decree-Law no. (20) of 2018 on the Criminalisation of Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism and Illegal Organisations, and its amendments; and Based on the proposal made by the Minister of Economy and approved by the Council of Ministers,
Hereby issued following Decree-Law:
Title 1
General Provisions for Companies
Chapter 1 Companies
  Article 1- Definitions
In application of the provisions of this Decree-Law, the following terms and expressions shall have the meanings assigned against each, unless the context requires otherwise:
State: The United Arab Emirates.
Federal Government: The government of the United Arab Emirates.
Local Government: Any of the Governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.
Ministry: The Ministry of Economy.
Minister: The Minister of Economy.
Central Bank: The Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates.
Authority: The Securities & Commodities Authority.
Competent Authority: The local authority having competence with regards to the affairs of companies in the relevant Emirate.
Company: The commercial company.
Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC): A Public joint stock Company that the Authority has approved to classify as a Special Purpose Acquisition Company without any other purpose, in accordance with the provisions of the decision issued by the Authority in this regard.
Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV): The Company established with the aim of separating the obligations and assets associated with a particular financing operation from the obligations and assets of the person who incorporated it, and used in credit operations, borrowing, securitisation, issuance of bonds, and transfer of risks associated with insurance, reinsurance, and derivatives operations, in accordance with the provisions of the decision issued by the Authority to regulate this activity.
Governance: A set of controls, standards, and procedures that achieve corporate governance at the management level of the company in accordance with the international standards and practices, by determining the duties and responsibilities of Board Members and the executive management of the company, taking into account the protection of the rights of shareholders and stakeholders.
Working Day: The official working days in ministries, government agencies, and local departments.
Special Decision: The resolution issued by a majority vote of shareholders who own at least three-quarters of the shares represented in the general assembly meeting of the joint-stock company.
Registrar: The Companies Registrar appointed by the Minister and who carries out his duties through the Companies Department at the Ministry.
Markets: The securities and commodities markets licensed by the Authority to operate in the State. Securities:
- Shares issued by Joint Stock Companies;
- Derivatives and investment units as approved by the Authority;
  
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 - Bonds, sukuk, and notes issued by the Federal Government, Local Governments, or public authorities or institutions in the State;
- Bonds, sukuk, and any debt instruments issued by companies in accordance with the regulation issued by the Authority;
- Any other local or foreign securities acceptable to the Central Bank and the Authority.
Public Subscription: Inviting any physical or juristic person or class or classes of persons to purchase any Securities.
Securities Book Building: The process under which the price of the Security is determined upon its issue or sale in a Public Subscription, pursuant to the provisions of the decision issued by the Authority in this respect.
Strategic Partner: The partner whose contribution to the company results in the provision of beneficial technical, financial, operational, or marketing support to the Company.
Shares Register: The register that shows the shares owned by shareholders in Joint Stock Companies and the rights attached thereto.
Shares Register Secretariat: The entity or entities licensed by the Authority to prepare a register for the shares of Private Joint Stock Companies.
Board Member: Any member among the members of the Company’s board of directors, including the Chairman.
Article 2- Objectives of the Decree-Law
The present Decree-Law aims to contribute to the development of the working environment and the State’s capabilities and economic position in accordance with global changes as to regulating companies, especially those related to regulating Governance rules, protecting the rights of shareholders and partners, supporting the flow of foreign investment, and enhancing the social responsibility of companies.
Article 3- Companies governed by the provisions of this Decree-Law
The provisions of this Decree-Law, as well as the regulations and decisions issued in implementation thereof, shall apply to commercial companies established in the State; also, the provisions relating to foreign companies set forth in this Decree-Law, as well as the decisions and regulations issued in implementation thereof, shall apply to foreign companies that establish their head office in the State for the practice of any activity therein or establish a branch or representative office thereof in the State.
Article 4- Companies exempt from the provisions of this Decree-Law
1- Save for the registration and renewal of registration in the exempt companies register at the Ministry, the Authority, and the Competent Authority, each within its own competencies, the provisions of this Decree-Law shall not apply to:
a- Companies exempt under a Cabinet decision, where a special provision is stipulated to this effect in the Memorandum of Association or Statute thereof in accordance with the controls issued by the Council of Ministers.
b- Companies wholly owned by the Federal or Local Government, or any of the institutions, bodies, agencies, or subsidiaries thereof, and any other companies wholly owned by those entities or their subsidiaries, where a special provision is stipulated to this effect in the Memorandum of Association or Statute thereof.
c- Companies in which the Federal or Local Government, or one of the institutions, bodies, agencies, subsidiaries thereof or any companies in which any of them owns, directly or indirectly, at least (25%) of their capital and operating in the field of oil exploration, extraction, refining, manufacturing, marketing, and transportation, or operating in the energy sector of all kinds, or in the electricity and gas production or water desalination, transmission, and distribution, where a special provision to this effect is stipulated in the Memorandum of Association or Statute thereof.
d- Companies exempt from the provisions of Federal Law no. (2) of 2015 on Commercial Companies, and its amendments, prior to the date of entry into force of the provisions of this Decree-Law, where a special provision is stipulated to this effect in the Memorandum of Association or Statute thereof.
e- Companies exempt from the provisions of this Decree-Law by virtue of special federal laws.
f- Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) without any other purpose, where a special provision is stipulated to this effect in the decision issued by the Authority regarding these companies.
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 g- Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV), where a special provision is stipulated to this effect in the decision issued by the Authority to regulate this activity.
2- The companies stated in clause (1/b, c, d) of this article shall adjust their situation in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law if they sell or offer for Public Subscription any percentage of their share capital or list their shares in one of the financial Markets in the State.
3- The companies stated in clauses (1/f) and (1/g) of this article shall adjust their situation in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law and pursuant to the regulations or decisions issued by the Authority regarding such companies.
Article 5- Companies operating in free zones
1- The provisions of this Decree-Law shall not apply to companies incorporated in the free zones of the State where a special provision to this effect is stipulated in the laws or regulations of the relevant free zone. Notwithstanding the foregoing, these companies shall be governed by the provisions of this Decree-Law if such laws or regulations permit them to conduct their activities outside the free zone in the State.
2- Subject to the provisions of clause (1) of this article, the Council of Ministers shall issue a decision specifying the conditions to be observed for the entry and registration of companies operating in the free zones of the State and wishing to conduct their activities inside the State and outside the free zones.
Article 6- Corporate Governance
1- Notwithstanding the requirements of the Central Bank with regard to the financial institutions subject to its control and supervision, the Minister shall issue the decision regulating Governance for companies with the exception of Public Joint Stock Companies, in respect of which the Board of Directors of the Authority shall issue such decision. The Governance decision shall include the rules, controls, and provisions that the companies shall comply with.
2- The Company’s board of directors or managers, as the case may be, shall be responsible for implementing the Governance rules and standards.
Article 7- Breach of Governance rules
The Governance decisions provided for in clause (1) of Article (6) shall include the fines determined by the Ministry or the Authority, each within its own competencies, to be imposed on companies, their chairmen, Board Members, managers, and auditors in case of violating such decisions, provided that the amount of the fine does not exceed (10,000,000) ten million dirhams.
Article 8- Definition of a Company
1- A Company is a contract whereby two or more persons undertake to participate in a profit-making project by contributing a share in the capital or performing a specific work and sharing any profit or loss resulting therefrom.
2- The economic project provided for in clause (1) of this article shall include every commercial, financial, industrial, agricultural, real estate, or other kinds of economic activity.
3- As an exception to clause (1) of this article, a Company may be incorporated or owned by one single person in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law.
Article 9- Forms of Companies
1- The Company shall take one of the following forms: a- Joint Liability Company.
b- Limited Partnership Company.
c- Limited Liability Company.
d- Public Joint Stock Company.
e- Private Joint Stock Company.
2- Any company that does not take on any of the forms provided for in the preceding clause shall be considered null and void, and the persons who concluded contracts or transactions in its name shall be held severally and jointly liable for the obligations arising therefrom.
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 3- Any company incorporated in the State shall hold the nationality thereof. Nevertheless, this shall not necessarily entail that said company enjoys rights limited to UAE nationals.
Chapter 2
Incorporation and Management of the Company Article 10- Activities with strategic impact
1- By virtue of a Cabinet decision, based on the proposal of the Minister, a committee shall be formed which members include the representatives of the competent authorities, and shall be concerned with proposing the activities with strategic impact, as well as the necessary controls for licensing companies that carry out any of these activities.
2- The Council of Ministers, based on the recommendation of the committee stipulated in clause (1) of this article, shall issue a decision defining the activities with strategic impact and the controls for licensing any such companies.
3- Notwithstanding the competencies conferred thereupon by the Council of Ministers in accordance with clause (2) of this article, the Competent Authority shall have the following powers:
a- Determining a certain percentage of the nationals’ participation in the capital or boards of directors of all companies incorporated within the scope of its competencies.
b- Approving the applications for the incorporation of companies and determining the fees payable according to the controls approved by the Council of Ministers and provided for in clause (2) of this article, subject to the provisions stipulated in this Decree-Law regarding Joint Stock Companies.
4- The Council of Ministers may, at the request of the Ministry or the concerned authority, or the Competent Authority, as the case may be, exempt any Company whose activities are regulated under a special legislation, from any condition or text relating to the percentage of nationals' ownership or participation in the management of that Company.
Article 11- Conducting the activity
1- The Company shall obtain all the approvals and licences required for the activity to be conducted by the Company in the State before commencing to practice its activity.
2- The Council of Ministers shall issue a decision determining the formation and qualifications of the members of the Internal Sharia Control Committees and the Sharia Controller of companies incorporated inside the State and conducting their activities in accordance with the provisions of the Islamic Sharia. The said decision shall determine the work controls of such committees. Following their incorporation and prior to the commencement of their activities, such companies shall obtain the approval of the Internal Sharia Control Committees.
3- Only Public Joint Stock Companies may engage in banking and insurance business, unless otherwise provided by the special laws regulating these activities or the decisions issued pursuant thereto.
Article 12- The Company’s name
1- The Company shall have a trade name that does not violate the public order of the State, and this name shall be followed by the legal form of the Company. No Company may be registered under a name previously registered in the State or under any similar name to an extent that may lead to confusion.
2- The Company may change its name into another name by virtue of a Special Decision issued by its general assembly and the like, as approved by the Competent Authority and as acceptable to the Registrar. The change of the name of the Company shall not prejudice its rights or obligations or the legal proceedings brought by or against the Company. Any legal proceedings that have already been brought or initiated by or against the Company shall also continue in respect of the modified name of the Company.
Article 13- The Company's address and correspondence
1- Every Company shall have an address registered with the State and to which notices and correspondences shall be dispatched.
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 2- All contracts, documents, correspondences, and applications forms issued by the Company shall bear its name, legal form, registration number, and address and, if the share capital of the Company is added to such particulars, the amount of the paid share capital shall be stated.
3- If the Company is under liquidation, a notation to this effect shall be made in the Company’s documents.
Article 14- Drafting the Memorandum of Association
1- The Memorandum of Association of a Company and each amendment thereto shall be made in Arabic and authenticated by the Competent Authority, otherwise, the Memorandum of Association or the amendment thereto shall be deemed null and void. If the Memorandum of Association is drawn up in a foreign language in addition to Arabic, the Arabic text shall be adopted and applicable in the State, and the authentication shall be made by the Competent Authority in attendance in person or by way of an electronic signature as specified by the Competent Authority to this effect, without prejudice to the authentication thereof by a notary public in the cases specified by a decision of the Competent Authority in this regard.
2- The partners may uphold against each other the nullity arising from the failure to draft in writing the Memorandum of Association or the amendment thereto, or the failure to authenticate the same. However, the partners may not invoke such nullity against third parties.
3- If the nullity of the Company is adjudicated based on the request of a partner, such nullity shall have no effect except as of the date on which such ruling becomes final.
Article 15- Registration of the Memorandum of Association of the Company with the Competent Authority
1- In order to be valid, a Company's Memorandum of Association and any amendment thereto shall be entered in the Commercial Register at the Competent Authority.
2- If the Memorandum of Association is not registered as set out in clause (1) of this article, it shall not be enforceable against third parties. If the non-registration is limited to one or more of the details required to be registered, only such non-registered details shall not be enforceable against third parties.
3- The companies shall notify the Competent Authority and the Registrar in writing within 15 (fifteen) Working Days upon any amendment or change to the registered particulars of the Company, including its name, address, share capital, number of shareholders or legal form.
4- The managers or Board Members of the Company, as the case may be, shall be jointly liable to indemnify the damage suffered by the Company, the shareholders, or third parties due to the non-registration of the Memorandum of Association or any amendments thereto in the Commercial Register with the Competent Authority.
Article 16- Proving the existence of the Company’s Memorandum of Association by third parties
1- A third party may prove the existence of the Memorandum of Association of the Company or any amendment thereto by all means of proof. Such third party may also uphold the existence or nullity of the Company against the partners.
2- If the nullity of the Company is ruled based on a third-party request, the Company shall be deemed void ab initio against such third party. Persons who have concluded contracts with said third party in the name of the Company shall be severally and jointly liable for the obligations arising from such contract.
3- In all cases where the nullity of the Company is ruled, the conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Association shall apply to the liquidation of the Company and the settlement of the rights of the shareholders against each other. The debtors of the Company may not request or uphold the nullity in order to be discharged from their debts towards the Company.
Article 17- Nature of the share provided by a partner
1- The capital of the Company shall consist of cash or in-kind contributions with an estimated value or either of them.
2- The partner shall not contribute by his work, unless he is a joint partner. Also, the partner’s contribution may not consist of his reputation or influence.
Article 18- Rules governing contribution to the Company
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 1- If the partner’s contribution consists of a property right or any other in-kind rights whose ownership is transferred to the Company, such partner shall be held liable, in accordance with the applicable rules as regards the contract of sale, for the transfer of ownership and the guarantee of the share, in cases of loss, maturity, or emergence of a defect or deficiency therein, unless otherwise agreed upon.
2- If the contribution consists of the mere usufruct of a property, the provisions applicable to the lease contract shall apply to such matters as set out in clause (1) of this article, unless otherwise agreed upon.
3- If partner’s contribution consists of debts payable by third parties or other in-kind rights, such partner's liability shall not be discharged towards the Company until after settlement of these debts. Moreover, the partner shall be liable to indemnify the damage to the Company if the debts are not repaid upon falling due.
4- Notwithstanding the provisions of the Law on Copyrights and Neighbouring Rights and the Law on the Regulation and Protection of Industrial Property Rights for Patents and Industrial Designs and Models, and unless otherwise agreed upon, should the partner’s contribution consist of his work, any gain generated from the work shall be the right of the Company unless the partner has acquired this gain from a patent right.
Article 19- Failure to contribute to the Company
1- If a partner undertakes to contribute to the Company’s capital in the form of an amount of money, and defaults in paying such amount or his contribution consists of debts due by third parties and said debts are not repaid, the said partner shall be liable to the Company for any obligations arising in consideration of his contribution to the Company.
2- A partner shall be liable to the Company for the difference, if any, between the amount of money or value of the contribution made by him to the Company and the amount of money or value of such other contribution set out in the register of partners, and which the partner should have made in accordance with the provisions of this Decree- Law.
Article 20- Execution against anything in lieu of the share
1- Personal creditors of a partner may not recover their rights out of the share of the debtor partner in the Company's capital. However, they may claim their rights from the debtor’s share in the Company’s profits. If the Company is terminated, the creditors’ rights shall be paid from the partner’s share in the remaining assets thereof upon termination of the Company’s liquidation.
2- If partner’s contribution in the Company consists of shares, then the creditors thereof may, in addition to the rights set out in clause (1) of the present article, file a lawsuit before the competent court to sell these shares and subsequently recover his debt out of the sale proceeds.
Article 21- Legal personality of the Company
1- The Company shall acquire a legal personality in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law and the decisions issued hereunder, as of the date of its entry in the commercial register at the Competent Authority.
2- The Company under incorporation shall be considered as having a legal personality during the period of its incorporation to the extent necessary therefor. The Company shall be bound by the acts of its founders in connection with the incorporation procedures and requirements during the incorporation period, provided that such incorporation be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law.
3- Upon its dissolution, the Company shall be considered under liquidation. During the liquidation period, the Company shall maintain its legal personality to the extent necessary therefor. The expression "Under Liquidation” shall be added to Company’s name in a clear manner.
4- Subsidiaries of Holding Companies shall enjoy a legal personality and shall have their own independent financial liability.
Article 22- Duties of the Company’s managing director
The Company’s managing director shall preserve the rights thereof and act with due care. Also, he shall carry out all acts that are consistent with the object of the company and within the limits of the powers vested in him by virtue of an authorisation issued by the Company to this effect.
Article 23- Liability of the Company for the acts of its managing director
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 The Company shall be bound by any act or conduct arising out of its managing director upon conducting the affairs of management in a usual manner. The Company shall also be bound by any act of any of its employees or agents authorised to act on behalf of the Company, and whereby a third party relies thereon in its dealing with the Company.
Article 24- Exemption from liability
Subject to the provisions of this Decree-Law, any provision in the Memorandum of Association or Statute of the Company authorising it or any of its subsidiaries to agree to exempt any person from any personal liability that such person bears in his capacity as a current or former officer of the Company shall be deemed null and void.
Article 25- Protection of persons dealing with the Company
1- The Company may not uphold the absence of its liability towards persons dealing with it, on the ground that the entity authorised to manage the Company was not duly appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law or the Statute of the Company, so long as the acts thereof are within the usual limits of entities assuming the same position in companies that conduct the same type of activity as the Company.
2- To enjoy protection, a person dealing with the Company shall be a bona fide party. A person shall not be deemed as acting in good faith if he previously knew or could have known, based on his relationship with the Company, the aspects of deficiency in the act or work intended to be upheld against the Company.
Article 26- Accounting registers
1- Every Company shall keep accounting registers showing its transactions so as to accurately reveal at any time its financial position and enable the partners or shareholders to make sure that the Company’s accounts are kept in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law.
2- Every Company shall keep its accounting registers in its head office for a period of at least (5) five years from the end of the fiscal year of the Company.
3- The Company may keep an electronic copy of the original of the documents and registers kept and deposited therewith in accordance with the controls issued by a decision of the Minister.
Article 27- Accounts of the Company
1- Every Joint Stock Company or Limited Liability Company shall have one or more auditors to audit the accounts of the Company on a yearly basis. The remaining forms of companies may appoint an auditor in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law.
2- The Company shall prepare annual financial accounts including the balance sheet and the profit and loss account.
3- The Company shall apply the International Accounting Standards and Practices upon preparing its periodical and annual accounts, to give a clear and accurate idea of the profits and losses thereof.
4- Every partner or shareholder in any Company may, based on a written request he submits, obtain a free copy of the last audited accounts and of the last report of its auditor and a copy of the accounts of the group if it is a Holding Company. The Company shall respond to such request within (10) ten days from the date of its filing.
Article 28- Fiscal year of the Company
1- Every Company shall have a fiscal year as determined in its Statute, provided that the first fiscal year of the Company does not exceed (18) eighteen months and is not less than (6) six months, commencing as of the date of the Company’s entry in the Commercial Register at the Competent Authority.
2- The subsequent fiscal years shall consist of consecutive periods, each of (12) twelve months commencing directly upon the expiry of the preceding fiscal year.
Article 29- Distribution of the profits and losses
1- If the Company's Memorandum of Association does not specify the share of a partner in the profits or losses, the said share shall be pro rata to his contribution in the capital. If the Memorandum of Association specifies only a partner's share in the profits, his share in the losses shall be equal to his share in the profits and vice versa.
    
 www.lexismiddleeast.com
 2- If a partner's share is limited to his work, the Company's Memorandum of Association shall specify his share in the profits and losses. If the partner has made a cash or in-kind contribution in addition to his work, he shall have a share in the profits and losses for his work and another share for his cash or in-kind contribution.
